When it comes to Jesus' second coming and
the time of the apocalypse, I don't know
how many theories there are on this topic.
How many times have we heard
predictions about the end of the
world, the apocalypse, and various
prophets about whom Jesus warns us,
but He warns us not to believe anyone.
Why?
Because today Jesus speaks and compares
the day of His coming to lightning.
Why does he compare it to lightning?
Because in Palestine at that
time, the climatic conditions
were such that it rarely rained.
But when there was a sign of
rain, lightning would suddenly
strike, it would get dark,
and... Everyone would get scared.
And precisely, Jesus compares his
coming today in the gospel to lightning.
That it will be sudden, that everyone
will see and experience it, and not as
some false prophets today interpret it,
saying it will be this year, it will
be like this, it will be like that.
So, the first thing we as Christians
need to believe is the Gospel.
And that is, Jesus says he will
definitely come, but when, no one knows.
And thirdly, it will be sudden.
So, what is Jesus talking about here?
He is talking about the Kingdom of Heaven.
That it was already
established with his coming.
All those who lived at that
time didn't even notice that the
Kingdom of God had already arrived.
Even today, many people, even some in the
church, do not notice that the Kingdom
of God is here, that Jesus is alive.
Today, there are plenty of people,
from believers to non-believers, who
doubt whether Jesus is alive at all.
So, when will He come a second time?
If we do not live with the awareness that
Jesus is coming and what He is talking
about regarding the Kingdom of God?
Because we, who are Gentiles,
sometimes behave just as the Jews did.
What do we expect?
Some kind of world revolution,
a kingdom of peace, established
security and prosperity.
Let's remember that at that moment the
Jews were under occupation, they were
constantly under occupation, and at
that time they were under the Romans.
They expected Christ to come as a military
leader to establish that kingdom, and
that it would be an external kingdom.
The organisation of the state,
the organisation of the kingdom.
That it would be a revolution
when the promised Messiah comes.
Even today, many ask,
where is God in this world?
Why doesn't He intervene
a bit, calm these wars?
Why doesn't He organise society a bit?
Why doesn't He make people convert?
No.
Jesus brought a different
kind of revolution.
Revolutions of the heart.
That is what many are
confused about today.
They are confused by
sin, because sin blinds.
Even today, many do not see
that the Kingdom of God has been
established, that Jesus is alive.
Why do they not see?
Because they do not
believe with their hearts.
As the scripture beautifully says,
"This people honour me with their lips,
but their hearts are far from me." And
Jesus is precisely speaking about the
revolution of the Kingdom of God that
is established in the human heart.
And that revolution of the
Kingdom of God is love.
Many do not open themselves to love
today, they do not open themselves to
God, and therefore they cannot notice
that the Kingdom of God is alive.
That among us are so many saints, so many
people who have opened themselves to God's
grace, God's love, they have established
the Kingdom of God in their hearts.
Jesus does not want to guarantee us
material goods like the European Union,
but wants to give us the kingdom of love,
which this world is taking away from us.
Because today we are spiritually
orphaned, we are spiritually hungry
and thirsty for God and love.
Jesus tells us that prosperity,
security, and armament will not bring
peace to our hearts, but He will.
How many open themselves to Him?
How many today see the Kingdom of God?
Do you feel the Kingdom of God
in your heart at this moment?
Jesus warns us in today's Gospel
to be patient, as many have become
impatient waiting for His second coming.
Is it really so important to us how
we, as believers, sometimes start to
concern ourselves with trivial questions
that aren't crucial for our salvation?
Did Jesus get dirty in the
mud when he was a child?
Knowing that will surely save you.
You'll definitely convert if you
know the date when Jesus will come.
You won't.
Those who are just curious like Baba
Vanga and others, they just babble with
their mouths, not with their hearts.
Because if you knew He was coming
tomorrow, would you have time to repent,
to open your heart, to cast away sin?
And what does Jesus teach us?
Jesus wants us to learn one thing for
when He comes, to be where we are,
in our position, to be ready then.
Not to abandon our jobs, not to leave all
our responsibilities, because Jesus is
coming tomorrow, the end of the world.
And what does He mean by that?
That we should be ready at any moment.
It doesn't matter what tomorrow brings.
Whether it will be in 5
years or 10, it will happen.
But what matters to Jesus is that He
warns us today: when He comes, will the
Son of Man find faith on this earth?
Will He find those who have opened
their hearts to the Kingdom of God?
That's what's important to you and me,
that we are ready whenever it happens.
Will you die tomorrow or
will Jesus come tonight?
It doesn't matter.
Just be ready and in your position.
That's why I say, many have been
impatient at times, as history
has shown in Christianity.
We shouldn't lose patience, but
rather open ourselves to that kingdom.
If you start living it here
on earth now, nothing grand or
spectacular will change up there.
It will only continue with
stronger, better intensity.
Beware of those who deceive.
Beware of those who prophesy to you.
Those who interpret for you, who
choose the number of the saved.
We have so many theses about
this, so many false teachings.
Jesus warned us about this.
And today, people blindly run after it.
You see, she has the gift of prophecy,
she said this, she said that...
People, have a little faith in the Gospel.
You believe every old woman,
every prophetess, every guru.
But the Word of God is imprinted
in your heart, as St. Paul says.
Stay faithful to that.
Many will end up in hell because
they are not faithful to God's Word.
They seek alternatives, they
want to speed up the path.
The Lord therefore
wants to test our faith.
He says that when the second coming
happens, no one will foresee it, but
everyone will see it when it occurs.
So, many today think they can
benefit from a good connection.
That if you are in communion with someone,
you will be saved because of them.
Many think if I am in some association
or community, I will be saved.
Don't forget, salvation
is individual, personal.
Remember when the Gospel says in another
place, it warns that when the Lord comes,
he will separate the husband from the
wife, the child from the father and
mother, he will separate... This means
you won't benefit from anyone else.
You won't benefit from any
association or anything like that.
It means you will personally see
the Lord and experience him, but
you will also personally give
an account to that same Lord.
It's important that we are ready
in the morning, at noon, in
the evening, at every moment.
That should concern us.
Not the time and date of His coming.
But are we ready now for the Lord to come?
He will come in the Eucharist,
He will come in adoration.
Are we ready to open ourselves to Him?
Many times I see, even here at these
DDBs and in general, people come.
Not everyone opens up.
Not everyone opens their heart.
There are those who open up and cry and
experience grace because God is alive.
God wants to saturate us with love.
But there are also those icebergs who
come out of curiosity, who come and
don't know what to do with themselves.
So they think, "Let's go there, it's
crowded, I'll go and push my way
in." It doesn't matter where it is.
But man, you're missing out on grace.
So, the Kingdom of God is being
offered to you, and yet you are
afraid to open up to God, who is love.
Why is that?
Why?
It's so simple, yet we
make it so complicated.
That's why I'm telling you.
Wherever you go, what are you looking for?
The Kingdom of God is not
some external spectacle.
It's an inner reality.
There are also those who go
from one spiritual renewal to
another just to see a spectacle.
So, the relationship with the
Lord and the Kingdom of God
is not an external spectacle.
That's what the Jews expected.
Give us some spectacle of
the kingdom, so we can see it
visually, what it is, how it is.
No, the Lord speaks precisely about
the interior of our heart, our soul.
Why?
Because God does not conquer
by force but by love.
His kingdom does not come from
the outside, but from within.
That's why it confuses many people.
That's why many people can't
see this kingdom present.
But it lives.
It lives in you, it lives in him,
it lives in her, it lives in them.
It is already present.
And that's why many have difficulty seeing
it because it is not some grand spectacle.
Rather, it is a personal
relationship with God.
That's why it is said that the
Kingdom of God begins in our hearts.
The Kingdom of God means that God reigns.
When?
When does God reign in my heart?
Let's examine our conscience.
What reigns in my heart?
God or my ego?
My fear?
My pride?
My selfishness?
My security?
What reigns at this moment
in my heart and in yours?
Is it the Kingdom of God, trust
in God, or all the other spirits
and things that destroy us?
Have we opened ourselves
to God who is love?
Did your heart burn as you came here?
Does it burn while you are
here for three hours in prayer?
If it doesn't burn, mate, then
the devil is burning within you.
Some other spirit is burning.
Because it's impossible, I don't
understand how someone can be in prayer
for three hours and feel nothing.
How?
It only means that you have
deliberately locked your heart.
Saint Peter will lock the
gates of heaven for you too.
You're punishing yourself.
Until when?
It's such a problem.
Belong to Jesus.
Choose his kingdom, the
kingdom of love in your heart.
Whenever you choose God, choose
love, when you stop being afraid,
you will be blessed, the kingdom
of God will grow in your heart.
When you stop sinning, when
you do good, the kingdom of
God will grow in your heart.
When you stop hating and
choose to forgive, the Kingdom
of God grows within you.
And so on and so forth.
Are we striving for the Kingdom
of God to grow in our hearts?
It is possible.
We all need to improve and change
day by day, to belong to God, for the
Kingdom of God to come alive within us.
We are constantly in a state of limbo,
always waiting to die, for something
with God to come alive when we die.
Nothing will come to life then.
Now we pray to the Lord to change us.
If you noticed a sentence in the
Gospel where it says that Jesus
says, but first the Son of Man must
suffer greatly, be rejected by this
generation, and then he will come.
You see, we might be living
in a time where it is evident
how many people reject Jesus.
How many reject faith.
How many consider themselves enlightened
and those who believe, of course, they
consider stupid and naive, and then they
say, you're still in the Middle Ages.
Thank God that we have faith and
that we are considered foolish.
I'm really glad that I'm not enlightened
by the same spirit they live by.
The spirit of death.
I wouldn't have the courage
to declare Jesus dead.
That's why I'm telling you, Jesus
says, there will come a time when
they will first reject me, and
then the false ones will appear
and say, here he is, there he is.
Do not follow such people.
Why?
Because Jesus says that the kingdom
comes through rejection, that the
kingdom of God comes through the
cross, and that is our comfort.
For if someone hates you because you
believe, if someone persecutes you because
you believe, if someone is jealous of
you just because you believe, if someone
mocks you just because they saw you in
church, if someone mocks you because
you made the sign of the cross in the
canteen, great, remember what Jesus says.
They should reject me first.
So why wouldn't they reject
me and you because of Jesus?
It means that God lives in you.
As soon as this world rejects
you, society, friends, relatives,
brother, sister, parents, well, thank
God, let them reject us forever.
We belong to Jesus.
And if they will reject
Jesus, let them reject us too.
It can only be a plus for us.
Because while this world embraces
us, while sinful society pulls us
towards itself, that's the problem.
Then we are in the clutches of evil.
When that same world cannot tolerate
us just because we belong to Jesus.
They want to spit us out from their
mouths, from society, from everything.
Eliminate everything that is Christian.
Great!
Fantastic!
We are on the right path.
I don't know how to make those
who are in the jaws of evil aware.
Those who follow the broad path.
Because evil always embraces you.
Evil people always seek you out,
evil people and the devil always
reward you, and many do not see this,
unfortunately, they do not see it.
That is why the Kingdom of God goes
through suffering, through rejection,
through sacrifice, and that is a comfort
to every Christian who has sincerely
opened themselves to the Kingdom of God.
Suffering, rejection, everything
that Jesus went through.
You walk the path of Jesus
and it cannot be otherwise.
But do not be afraid.
Do not be afraid when the Lord comes.
You will not tremble then.
You will be at peace.
Or when you are dying, you
will die in peace because
you know where you are going.
The Kingdom of God is not seen by
who has power, but by who knows
how to love even when rejected.
Sometimes it seems to us today that
we are so small in the face of evil.
So small in this world of power,
money, politics, everything.
However, power isn't in that.
Power is to love and be rejected.
Power is to love and forgive.
That is the Kingdom of God.
That breaks the axes of evil.
That breaks the haters of
Jesus, the haters of you and me.
Love.
Just imagine how strong that is.
How strong that is.
To love and be rejected.
And this world teaches everything
completely differently.
To seek revenge, to hate, to
push for yourself, to fight.
But you see, the source of all that
is what you live in your heart.
When you open yourself to God, that
personal relationship with God, it becomes
clear to you what the Lord wants from
you only when you are alone with Him.
Not what others have told you.
Let's be clear, we will not
all bear the same cross.
Not everyone bears the same cross equally.
Nor do we all have the same intensity
of God's grace in our hearts.
But the Lord will accomplish through
each of us what He needs and desires.
It's very interesting, if you've
listened, that it says there,
The Kingdom of God is not
within one person, but the
Kingdom of God is among you.
You've heard that sentence in the Gospel.
He says, the Kingdom of
God is among you, plural.
There are people who have
opened the Kingdom of God.
And those people are the church.
Because Jesus says, where two or three
are gathered in my name, I am with them.
And today Jesus speaks about rejection.
How many people reject fellowship?
The Church is a fellowship of
believers, the mystical body of Christ.
We're not talking about a building,
we're talking about spiritual fellowship.
You young people know how to
say, wow, how much easier it is
to talk to someone who believes.
You understand each other.
You strive to find a boyfriend or
girlfriend for marriage and in faith
because you will understand each other
more easily, both spiritually and in
terms of the values you want to live by.
And that is completely normal.
That's why it says here in the
plural, in the plural it says that
the Kingdom of God is among you.
That is the church, that is the mystical
body of Christ which should be respected.
And how many today are leaving that
church, how many are attacking it.
I don't know if the people who are
attacking it are often aware or not
that they are instruments of Satan.
Because when you attack the church,
you are not attacking the priest, the
bishop, or this person or that person.
You are attacking the
mystical body of Christ.
For the Kingdom of God is within you.
The Holy Spirit is within
you, within you, within you.
Love is within you.
And imagine how much that word,
love, is prostituted today.
I only acknowledge it
in the context of God.
It is the only true love that gives
itself completely on the cross.
All these other mantras in the name
of love, in the name of rights, in
the name of this, in the name of
that, the word is often misused.
True love serves, loves, does
not attack, does not hate.
I don't understand, imagine,
God by definition is love
and yet has so many enemies.
Who cannot bear love?
Evil.
Do you understand?
Is it so hard to understand when
you look at the cross, even if you
never read the Bible, you look at
the cross and see that this man
only loved, gave himself completely.
And yet someone hates him.
And yet someone cannot stand to
see him in school corridors, cannot
stand to see him in institutions,
cannot stand to see him anywhere.
Why?
Because evil is glaring from
your eyes as you serve Satan.
It's strange.
1 John 4:16 speaks of love,
yet someone constantly feels
the need to remove this image.
To remove the crucifix.
Why?
Because Jesus broke their power.
And even when they seem strong in
this world for a moment, they are not.
Because God is coming, Jesus
announces His glorious return.
It will come eventually,
everyone will bow down.
Jesus' arrival will be like lightning.
Suddenly, everyone will be frightened.
Those who are His, who live in love,
will recognise Him and wait bravely.
Only those who have persecuted
Him all these years will wail.
So, thank God for Jesus' second coming.
The Kingdom of God is interesting
because it conquers with love.
Jesus did not come into
this world with an army.
Jesus did not defeat evil with an
army but with love, a love that does
not give up even when it is rejected.
How many times has God's
love been rejected?
How many times has it remained outside
the closed doors of our hearts?
However, let us remember when
Jesus came the first time.
He came to be judged.
And the second time Jesus
comes, He will come to judge us.
Do not forget that.
The first time we judged Him, but the
second time He comes, He will judge us.
And that will be the end of the story.
However, I would like to warn you about
one more thing I mentioned here, that
the Kingdom of God is in fellowship.
For those of us within the church,
there is one thing I must highlight
which is an absolutely great danger.
We often use the phrase, "I know
the faith, I know the Bible,"
and sometimes that knowledge
actually keeps us distant from God.
Are the Nazarenes where Jesus comes from?
Everyone knew Jesus, everyone knew him.
He couldn't do anything there
because they said, oh, we know you,
you're from this place, from that
place, and he couldn't do anything.
But they knew him.
They didn't change at all.
In the end, who betrayed Jesus?
Who handed Jesus over?
Those who knew him.
I'm afraid that many in the church
will also think they know Jesus
and use the phrase, "I know him."
I've experienced more than once asking
someone to talk about faith, and they
say, "Well, Father, well, Brother, well,
no, I know that, I've gone through the
Bible, do you still read it?" "Well,
no, once is enough, I know it now."
And then you try to encourage them by
saying, "Well, I read every day and study
the faith." And they say, "Poor you,
you went to school for so many years and
still don't know Jesus." People think they
know God if they've read something once.
But we must strive our whole
lives, absorb, contemplate, pray,
live sacramentally to truly know
Jesus, and we say we know Him best.
You might be familiar,
but you don't truly know.
Unfortunately, there are some believers
who think they know Jesus and the faith
better than bishops, better than the Pope.
I've encountered such people myself.
They interpret, they know everything.
They consider themselves to be more
Catholic than the Pope himself.
For example, there's a good example, I
don't know how much you've heard about it.
There are people within the Church
who spread the "Book of Truth" and
talk about the seal of the living God.
What is the problem here?
The Church has warned countless times
that this "book of truth" is not a
book of truth and that there is only
one seal, not the seal of the living
God as they interpret it, but the seal
of the sacrament, the seal of baptism.
And beyond that, nothing more is needed.
Yet they remain stubborn and disobedient
to the Church, disobedient to Christ.
And how many such people do we
have within the Catholic Church
who listen to someone else, not the
Church hierarchy, not the Holy Spirit
who speaks through the hierarchy?
But they will say, I know better than
the bishop, I know better than the
Pope, I know better than this priest.
You see how often that
phrase "I know" is used.
I've often encountered people who, when
they want to boast about their faith, say,
I know this bishop, I was good friends
with that priest, I'm great, top-notch.
But you see, that's
superficial, just knowing.
Don't let that word deceive you.
Don't let that word deceive you, because
what I said about this book, the book
of truth and the seal of the living God.
People, why did I focus on this?
Because it's spreading more and
more in Croatia, and the church is
warning, but some are deaf, they don't
want to hear the truth, they live
in lies and drag others into lies.
And why is that not good?
The author of that book claims that God
directly told her the words to write.
But the Second Vatican Council states
that the Bible wasn't directly dictated
by Jesus; rather, it says that divinely
inspired people wrote the scriptures.
And when you compare, you realise that
her book seems more authoritative than the
Bible, because in her case everything is
direct and nothing can be changed, whereas
here there is room to discern what the
Holy Spirit inspired and what individual
authors wrote in their own words.
Do you understand?
And how difficult it is today, we
must speak the truth but some will
want to listen and some won't.
And here we also see the Kingdom of God.
If I talk about the Kingdom of God, then
I am subject to Jesus Christ, to His
word, and I only believe in the Gospel.
And as Saint Paul says, let me be
cursed if I preach a different gospel.
So, brothers and sisters, we must be
cautious and vigilant so that the spirit
of this world does not lead us astray.
Amen.